Now let us consider two questions.
What do we have in common with Noah?
And how does his example apply to us?
Well, like Noah, we fully trust that Jehovah will fulfill his promise to end all wickedness
and that he will do so at exactly the right time.
Now, what help Noah to build his trust in Jehovah's promises?
One factor that must have helped him was his upbringing.
Now, to confirm that statement, we will consider two of Noah's relatives
and no doubt they had a big influence on him.
First, Noah must have received a godly upbringing from his father, Lamek.
The inside book states with certainty, Lamek had faith in God.
But how does the Bible indicate that Lamek and likely also his wife had strong faith in Jehovah?
One indication is found in Genesis chapter 5.
So let us consider that chapter for a moment.
Now, if you would take the time, perhaps later today, to read verses 6 to 31 in chapter 5,
you will know that these verses contain a list of eight fathers and eight sons.
The list starts with father Seth and his son Inos and ends with father Lamek and his son Noah.
Now, in this list, Lamek stands out from all other fathers.
Why so?
Of all eight fathers, only Lamek provides a reason for why he named his son in the way he did.
Then we read that reason in verses 28 and 29.
There it says, Lamek lived for 182 years and then became father to a son.
He named him Noah.
Now, let us pause you for a moment.
The footnote gives us the likely meaning of the name Noah as rest or consolation.
But then comes the most significant part.
Lamek goes on to explain why he gave his son the name consolation.
In verse 29, Lamek adds,
this one will bring us comfort, or as the footnote says, relief from our labor
and from the painful toil of our hands because of the ground that Jehovah has cursed.
Now, note the expressions that Lamek used.
Painful toil.
The ground that Jehovah cursed.
So, Lamek's words show that he looked back to what had happened in the garden of Eden.
In fact, he used the very same words, cursed ground.
Pain that Jehovah had used when he told Adam after the rebellion.
Cursed is the ground on your account.
In pain, you will eat its produce.
By repeating Jehovah's words, Lamek indicated that he realized that the rebellion of Adam and Eve
had sentenced humans to pain from which there seemed no relief or comfort.
Indeed, Lamek had meditated on Jehovah's words.
But Lamek looked back not only to a dark time, but also forward to a bright time.
In the first part of verse 29 he said about his son,
this one will bring us comfort from our labor.
So clearly, Lamek hoped that his son Noah would be instrumental in bringing relief to men's situation.
Now, Lamek's words were much more than a warm sentiment expressed by a father to his son.
What is the real significance of Lamek's words about Noah?
But the inside book further states that Lamek's words were an inspired revelation of God's purpose and will.
So Lamek's words expressed Jehovah's thoughts and feelings about Noah.
Now Noah's father died five years before the flood, but his prophecy came true.
When did it happen? The watchtower of 2017 states,
Jehovah inspired Lamek to utter a prophecy about Noah and that prophecy came true after the flood.
When exactly did it come true?
We find the answer that Genesis 8 verse 21.
Shortly after the flood, when Noah offered burnt offerings to God, Jehovah said in his heart,
never again will I curse the ground on men's account.
Indeed, Noah had lived up to the meaning of the name that he had received from his father.
Because of Noah's faith and action, Jehovah used him to bring relief.
Now, how does this account of Noah and his father apply to us?
Well, like Noah in the past, many of us have had the privilege to be raised by Godly parents.
And we know that by serving Jehovah wholeheartedly, we bring great joy to the heart of our parents.
They are happy that we serve at assembly halls, at RTOs, at construction project, maintenance sites, at battle and in the local congregations.
And much like Lamek did in the past, Godly parents today pray to Jehovah that the sacred service that their children give at these locations may indeed bring comfort and relief to many.
And for those of us who's Godly parents already fell asleep in death, well, we longed for the time when they come back to life and paradise,
and we can relate to them that we used our life fully in Jehovah's service.
How happy they will be when they hear that Godly training that they gave us helped us to build our faith in God's promises and to serve five Armageddon.
And likewise, we can imagine that when Noah is raised to life in paradise, he will long for the moment that he can tell to his father how he endure till the end of that old system and survive the flood.
And just think how happy Lamek will be when he hears that his son did indeed bring comfort and relief to many.
Now besides Lamek, who is the second relative who must have strengthened Noah trust in Jehovah's promises and in his protection, in his assurance to protect his servants?
Well, here is a clue. Both Noah and his second relative are described in exactly the same way in the Bible.
In Genesis chapter 6 we read, Noah walked with the true God. In Genesis chapter 5 we read, Inok walked with the true God.
Inok was Noah's great grandfather. Now that Jehovah moved the writer of Genesis to describe these two men in exactly the same manner indicates that Noah had much in common with his great grandfather.
Now it's true that Noah never met Inok because Inok died before Noah was born. But Noah's father, life, overlapped for more than 100 years with that of Inok.
So we can imagine that Lamek must have told stories to Noah about his grandfather how Inok prophesied courageously while surrounded by ungodly people, how these people hated Inok to the point that they wanted to kill him.
But despite being in danger, as we read in Genesis 5 verse 22, Inok continued to walk with the true God and Jehovah protected Inok.
Well, as Noah listened to these stories and reflected on Inok's faith and courage, his desire to follow in Inok's footsteps no doubt grew stronger and stronger.
In fact, Noah's faith became so strong that he continued to walk with God for 600 years until the time of the flood, in spite of the ungodly and violent people around him.
Now, just as Noah must have been strengthened by the faith of his forefather, some of us may be the third or the fourth generation in our family who served Jehovah.
If that's the case with you, your parents or grandparents likely told you stories about your relatives who served Jehovah perhaps way back in the time of brother Retaphord or even earlier.
And as you listen to these stories about your faithful relatives, your desire to walk in their footsteps grew stronger and stronger.
What though if we are not part of a family with a long line of witnesses?
Well, we too are encouraged by the examples of our brothers and sisters of previous generations when we read their life stories as found in the watchtower.
As we learn about their courage and endurance, their stories strengthen our faith.
Indeed, the examples of God's servants in the past as recorded in the Bible in our family history or in the life stories found in the watchtower help us to trust fully in the fulfillment of Jehovah's promises.
In turn, that trust strengthens us to do what? To imitate Noah and walk with God not just now but forever.